Earlier on, I said that streaming APIs were the fastest type of JSON API.
I never quantified that claim though.
In practice,
the extent to which a streaming API is faster would depend
upon your documents in your use cases, and in many cases,
the other styles of APIs may be fast enough.
In this demo,
we'll look at a simple benchmark comparison between the speed of
parsing a JSON document using streaming and binding APIs.
Then,
we'll look at another example comparing the memory consumption of
processing a large JSON document through the streaming and DOM APIs so
you can understand where the advantages are.
So we're going to produce a little benchmark here
using the JMH benchmarking framework.
That's where these annotations come from.
This isn't an introduction to JMH,
so I won't go through what all of this stuff means,
but basically in this benchmark, we read a file into memory so we can compare it.
And we look at the approach of DOM-based parsing and JsonFactory-based parsing.
Now I want to caveat with this benchmark, so I'm only using a single file here.
So feel free to go and take this benchmark and experiment on it with different
JSON files that you have for yourself and see how much they compare or differ
from performance from benchmark to benchmark.
There are a few different things to note here.
Firstly, there's the streaming benchmark.
Now it takes what's known as a blackhole object,
so that's an object that will ensure that a value is read,
so the compiler can't optimize away the code that we're doing here,
and then we just parse the file from our bankLoanFile,
loop through it,
and find all scalar values and just consume the text that they have there.
Then there's the binding approach here where we just
take the ObjectMapper and do a.
readValue on the basic bank loan class.
So this is an example of a, how much simpler the code is,
but also, as we'll see when we look at the results,
how much slower it is as well.
This is the output from the benchmark after being run on a quiet machine.
It shows the number of operations per second that can be performed
for both the binding and the streaming APIs.
Now even after consuming all of the output of the streaming API,
the worst case, and only using a small JSON document as input,
it is still nearly 20% faster achieving 413,
000 operations per second, rather than 347,
000 operations per second with the binding API.
Now, as I say, results may different based upon the input and the workload,
but this is just to demonstrate that it is genuinely faster.
So, for this demo,
we're going to look at the amount of memory consumption that exists
within different JSON streaming and parsing APIs.
Here is a huge JSON document that represents a bunch of features
about different properties in San Francisco.
So it has a bunch of lots that the city has divided into in blocks and it
carries information about what properties and things exist on those blocks
and has coordinates as to where those blocks are.
So, what we're going to do is write some code that looks up a given block number.
I'm just going to use block number 22 and it's going to count
the number of features in that block number.
So the number of interesting properties or what have you
that exists within that block of the city.
The first thing we're going to do is count that using the DOM API,
the document object model API,
and then at the end I'm going to print the memory consumption.
So to do that, we parse the file, okay, as our JsonNode.
Then we get the array of features within that file.
We loop over the features.
We get the properties about it.
And we get the block node.
And if the block number is equal to the block number that we're looking for,
then we increment the featureCount.
At the end, we print the memory consumption.
So we look up the amount of memory the JVM is currently using.
I just divide by a 1024 to get that value in kilobytes.
So, if we run this code, so the DOM version of the API,
we can see it takes a little bit of time to run.
If you're in the room with me,
you could probably also hear that the fan on my laptop is accelerating.
Okay, here we go.
So, that found 5 features, and in order to do so,
it used up nearly 900MB of memory.
Wow, 868 thousand KB of memory.
That is a lot.
So let's remove the tree or DOM-based version of the API,
and look at the streaming version of the API.
So this is one that uses the streaming parser, familiar code.
It loops over the different tokens.
If the token is a string,
which is what we're looking for because the block
numbers are actually string encoded,
then it checks the name is equal to BLOCK_NUM and that the text is
equal to that blockNumber that we're looking for,
i.
e.
block number 22.
Then,
it increments the featureCount and at the end prints out the memory consumption.
If we run this,
we see it runs much faster and it only uses 2MB of memory or less
than 2MB of memory because we're just streaming through the data rather than parsing it all in one big go.